[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
Doctors at the hospital had
given Anita Moorjani only hours
to live when she
arrived at the hospital.
And she was unable to move.
She was in a coma as a
result of the cancer that
had ravaged her body
for over three years.
And Anita is here today.
And she's here to
share her experience
of entering into
another dimension
and being given a choice whether
to return to life or not.
And her entire story is outlined
in her book, Dying to be Me.
And she is here today.
Hello.
>> ANITA MOORJANI: Hi, Lisa.
Thank you.
>> LISA: Thank you for being
here and what you've brought
back to share with
us is incredible.
Do you look in the
mirror every day
and just thank God
that you're back?
>> MOORJANI: Oh, gosh, yes.
Every day I think,
wow, what a gift just
to be given this
second chance at life.
Mind you, even though it
was amazingly beautiful
in the other realm.
And a huge part of me
didn't want to come back.
>> LISA: We're going
to talk about that,
but I want to back up for
a second to your childhood
and how you grew up.
Where were you raised?
>> MOORJANI: I was
raised in Hong Kong.
>> LISA: Oh, you
were in Hong Kong.
And what was your
upbringing like?
Was it a fairly
strict upbringing?
>> MOORJANI: You know, parts
of my upbringing was really
magical, but there was a lot of
parts that was also confusing
because my parents are Indian.
They're Hindu.
I grew up in Hong
Kong but because they
wanted me to be able
to speak English,
they put me into
a British school.
Most of the local schools
in Hong Kong are Chinese.
So they put me into
a British school.
So there I was in
a British school,
the other kids in my
class were all Westerners,
they were all British kids.
I was pretty much
the only Indian kid.
So I got bullied a lot
because I stood out.
So I got discriminated
against quite a lot.
I didn't speak to my
parents a lot about that.
Yes.
So I kept that to myself.
>> LISA: Why not?
>> MOORJANI: There were
a couple of reasons.
Actually, I had a problem first
in the first school I went to
and my parents had
me change schools.
So they moved me
to another school
and then I had another
set of problems.
And I didn't want to cause
them too much trouble.
I knew that they'd
already changed one school
or had me change one school.
The other thing is to
do with our culture.
In Indian culture, the gender
disparity between men and women
is huge.
So women are seen as
second class citizens.
As a little girl, I sensed that.
Even as a very young child
I remember somebody actually
saying to my mother,
were you disappointed
that your child was born a girl?
And so I already had a
sense that I was inferior
because I was a girl.
So coupled with the fact that
I was inferior in my culture
because I was a girl, I
was inferior in my school
because I was not white.
And all of that
together kind of made
me feel that there was
something wrong with me.
That it wasn't
them, but I actually
believed there was
something wrong with me.
>> LISA: And did
you have brothers?
>> MOORJANI: I had one brother.
Older brother.
Actually, he was
very protective.
He and I are very, very close.
>> LISA: So with
that growing up,
were you also assumed
into an arranged marriage?
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
And I rebelled against that.
But what ended up happening
was that my parents
did arrange a marriage for me.
Just in the last days running
up to the wedding, I ran away.
>> LISA: Wow.
How old were you?
>> MOORJANI: I was
in my very early 20s.
And it caused a huge
problem in our community.
>> LISA: Oh, I'm sure.
I'm sure.
With the other family
and your family.
It's mostly about the
families marrying.
>> MOORJANI: Oh, it is.
It's not about the two
individuals getting married,
it's a matchmaking
of two families.
And our Indian
community is so tight,
we still have this whole
caste system thing.
So everybody who was
off the same caste
as we were-- not just in Hong
Kong, but all over the world--
heard about this,
that I had run away.
And so people were saying,
who does she think she is?
And so I was told that no other
Indian man would marry me.
>> LISA: Oh my goodness.
Wow.
All of this by your early 20s.
But something gave
you the courage
to run away, because you had
to have known that was coming.
>> MOORJANI: I know.
And I couldn't tell if it was
the fear of getting married
into this family,
into this situation,
and being afraid of
letting them down
or the courage of being
able to run away from it.
It was a combination of the
two, because as we got closer
to the wedding date,
I started to realize
what they expected of me.
And I just felt I
don't think I'll
be able to meet
their expectations.
>> LISA: Such as?
>> MOORJANI: This is typical
of traditional Indian marriage,
so I don't want to make it
about them specifically,
but what was expected of me was
to be able to cook and clean
and be a housewife and
have children very quickly.
I wanted to continue studying.
I wanted to finish university,
I wanted to get a job.
That was out of the question.
I wanted to travel the world.
Absolutely out of the question.
>> LISA: Oh.
Wow.
>> MOORJANI: I was expected to
go to the temple twice a week
and do the worship.
Oh, and we had to live with
the family, the in-laws.
And I was supposed
to take care of them.
And I thought, wow, I don't
know if I can do this.
>> LISA: This is involved.
Yes.
Where did you go?
>> MOORJANI: Well, I ran away
to a friend's house in India.
>> LISA: Well, you ran far.
>> MOORJANI: I ran far.
I hid out for a month.
I stayed at her place.
She was a very good friend.
She was wonderful.
She actually kept me
without telling anyone.
Only my parents
knew where I was.
At that point my parents
were actually pretty good.
They also didn't
tell anyone else
where I was because they knew
that my fiance's family were
very, very upset and
they were looking for me.
>> LISA: Oh, my goodness.
What would they have done?
Well, with all of that you
mention the word "fear"
several times.
So you grew up around several
situations of deep, deep fear.
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
I did.
>> LISA: At what point did you
realize that you had cancer?
>> MOORJANI: Oh.
It's interesting, at the time
when I was settling down--
ready to settle down-- and
I'd met my husband, Danny,
who is actually amazing--
>> LISA: How did you meet Danny?
I have to hear about that
now after the whole marriage
and the arranged thing.
Where did you finally
meet your husband?
>> MOORJANI: You know, it's
just incredible because Danny is
also Indian.
But it's funny because my
parents were telling me
that now all the Indian
guys in our community
were not going to marry me.
Their parents will never
let their sons marry me.
And so I became a little
more rebellious and defiant
and I said, that's
all right, I'm
not going to marry
an Indian guy.
And so, that's
something in our culture
which is also not accepted,
especially at that time
because I'm going
back over 20 years.
So at that time, it
was definitely not
accepted to marry a non-Indian.
So my parents were still hopeful
that I'd meet somebody Indian.
And I had totally
rejected the idea.
Then I met Danny through
a friend who was not
trying to fix us up, in fact,
she was interested in him.
But when we met in the
room, he completely
didn't even notice my friend.
He spent the whole
evening talking to me.
And I was cautious
because I had just
run away from this
arranged marriage.
I didn't want to get
into another situation
with another Indian man.
>> LISA: Wow.
>> MOORJANI: And so
I was very cautious,
but he continued to pursue me.
And so one day I
actually said to him,
I said, "Do you know
the stories about me?
Do you know what
happened to me?"
And then he goes, "Yes, I do."
And I said, "Well,
what do you think?"
And he goes, "That's
why I love you more,
'cause you have a
mind of your own."
>> LISA: Oh, interesting.
So then you said, this
is the man for me.
>> MOORJANI: So I thought,
OK, he's all right.
He's really all right.
The other interesting thing
was that the rumor that
went around, which is crazy,
was that the reason I didn't
get married or
that I ran away was
because I didn't
want to do housework.
I mean, they'd reduced
it down to that.
And Danny had heard
that rumor, too.
So he responded by saying,
you don't have to worry,
I do windows.
I do laundry.
I cook.
>> LISA: That's hilarious.
But, you know, you
were probably speaking
for a lot women who really,
deep down inside didn't
want to have that role done
either, which is probably
why it spread so fast.
>> MOORJANI: Yeah, I think so.
>> LISA: I mean, my goodness.
But, I mean, in a
certain way, you
have spoken for many people
in many ways in your life.
And you've given voice to many
different people in your life.
So back to the cancer.
So did you marry?
>> MOORJANI: So we got married
and then I did start working
for a few years.
But when we were ready to settle
down and have children, that
was when I started to
notice something was wrong.
Something wasn't quite right.
I noticed a lump in my
neck, in my collar bone.
And I went to have it
checked out at the doctor.
It started out where
the doctor said,
"It could be just
a swollen gland.
I'm going to put
you on antibiotics."
But it didn't go away.
And then they did a biopsy and
they confirmed it was lymphoma.
>> LISA: Oh, my goodness.
>> MOORJANI: So
that was a shock.
>> LISA: At what age was this?
>> MOORJANI: I was
in my late 30s.
In my 30s.
>> LISA: We actually have
a picture here of you with
your husband cutting
your birthday cake.
And I'm not sure what
birthday this was.
>> LISA: Oh, this was, in fact,
this was well into the cancer
after it had progressed
quite dramatically.
>> LISA: And so you were going
through the treatment with
Danny.
He was there by your
side the whole time.
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
And what I want to
mention at this point
is that even before
I got diagnosed,
my best friend got
diagnosed with cancer.
>> LISA: Oh, my goodness.
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
And at that time, I was
still healthy and fine.
And my best friend, who
was vibrant and healthy,
she got diagnosed all
of a sudden with cancer.
And I was watching
her deteriorate.
And as I watched
her deteriorate,
I became so fearful of cancer.
Just so fearful.
And at that point,
everything in the news--
there was a lot of
emails and a lot of stuff
on social media about different
things that cause cancer.
We were reading things like
microwaves cause cancer.
Plastic bottles cause cancer.
Just about everything.
Sunshine causes cancer.
Red meat causes cancer.
Dairy products-- it
was like everything.
So I started becoming
paranoid about cancer
because here was my best friend.
And six months after my
best friend was diagnosed,
Danny's brother-in-law
was diagnosed with cancer.
>> LISA: It was everywhere.
>> MOORJANI: It was everywhere.
So I felt, wow, it's right
here in front of my nose.
And I started seeing
statistics like, you know,
advertisements for
anti-cancer supplements
and they say things
like, one in three people
are going to get cancer.
So I started to do
everything to avoid cancer.
I started taking supplements.
I started taking
wheat grass shots.
I went vegan and organic.
And I was doing all those
things even before it
was fashionable to
do all those things.
So I was following a
proper anti-cancer diet.
>> LISA: And it continued to--
>> MOORJANI: And
it was after that.
>> LISA: Oh, it was after.
>> MOORJANI: I was obsessive
about cancer and I got
diagnosed with cancer.
>> LISA: Interesting.
>> MOORJANI: And I say this--
and I don't want people to fear
being on such diets, because I'm
going to explain that, in fact,
I want to liberate
people from that fear.
>> LISA: Do you believe that
that fear in any way was
something that you were
so obsessed about that you
attracted it in any way?
That's a very odd
question to most people.
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
And I'm going to
explain and qualify this
because I don't want
people to think that they
can attract cancer
with their fear.
But what I want to
say that happened
with me is that I feel I
spent a lifetime coming
from a place of fear with
every choice and every decision
I made.
>> LISA: As you explained.
Yes.
>> MOORJANI: Yeah.
So everything I did, even my
choice of eating healthy foods
and following a
vegan diet, all of it
was not because I loved
my body or my life,
it was because I feared cancer.
And I was watching my
best friend die of cancer.
My husband's brother-in-law--
both of them died.
And they were having
the best treatment
that money can buy in the top
cancer institutes in the world.
And this made me believe
that it doesn't matter
what you do for
treatment, where you go,
cancer has a mind of its own.
I felt that basically if you
have cancer, you're gonna die.
So when I was
diagnosed with cancer,
it was still early stages,
but I just felt I'm gonna die.
>> LISA: It was an instant
death sentence for you?
>> MOORJANI: It was absolutely
an instant death sentence.
>> LISA: Really?
That's what you believed?
>> MOORJANI: That's what
I believed because I felt
I'm already doing everything
anti-cancer and I've still got
it.
And I'm watching these two
people who are close to me,
they're going to the best
hospitals that money can buy
and they're still deteriorating.
>> LISA: So in this photo,
you're blowing out a birthday
candle.
Do you happen to remember
what was going on in your mind
at that time?
>> MOORJANI: This was one of
my better days because my days
were like really up and down.
Really up and down.
And there were days where I
would just be so depressed.
And there were some days where
I would read something good
and then I would
be really hopeful
and some days I would
be really depressed.
This, as I said, was
one of my better days.
As the cancer
progressed though-- as I
got towards the end,
towards the day when
I went into the coma, which
was February 2, 2006--
as I got closer to that
day, I couldn't even go out.
I couldn't leave the house.
I always wanted to be at home
and not stay in hospital.
But I had to keep going into
hospital for treatments.
But towards the end I
could no longer walk.
My muscles had
completely deteriorated.
I had these big open skin
lesions-- one on my neck, one
under my arm.
And my lungs were
filled with fluid.
I couldn't talk
without wheezing.
I couldn't lie down.
If I lied flat, I would
choke on my own fluid.
I was really,
really in bad shape.
>> LISA: And you couldn't eat?
>> MOORJANI: I couldn't eat.
I wasn't digesting any food.
>> LISA: Was it
because of the chemo?
>> MOORJANI: It was.
And also because my body had
just stopped digesting food.
And I was also doing a
lot of natural things,
but everything I was doing, I
was just so tensed and fearful.
And so on February 2, I
just went into a coma.
And I was at home that
morning and my husband
called a doctor who said
to rush me to the hospital.
>> LISA: And then this report
that we have here is basically
a doctor's report saying that
you have full lymphoma in many
places in your body.
>> MOORJANI: This was the report
from February 2 of 2006 where
it lists where the tumors are.
Many of the tumors are
the size of lemons.
And you can see from
this report that there
are tumors in my neck, my chest,
all the way down to my abdomen.
It had spread throughout
my lymphatic system.
And my organs were
now shutting down.
And the doctors said that's
why I was in the coma
and that I wouldn't even
make it through the night.
I wouldn't be
alive the next day.
>> LISA: So you went into the
hospital and they say that
the systems start to fail before
somebody actually passes over.
What was your experience?
Do you remember going
to the hospital?
>> MOORJANI: I do.
And the thing is,
what I didn't realize
was that I was in
the coma because I
was aware of everything
that was going on around me.
And then even when I was
rushed into the hospital,
I was aware of what the doctors
were saying to my family.
And they put me in the ICU
and they were putting tubes
into me and things they
were telling my husband.
And I was aware of everything.
>> LISA: Because you could
hear it or because you could
actually see it?
>> MOORJANI: I
could even see it.
I could see them.
I could see the doctors.
These were doctors I
had never seen before,
but here I was seeing them
treating me for the first time
because it was the doctor
that was on duty at that time.
>> LISA: Did you have a
perspective as if you were
above looking below, or were
you in your body looking out?
Do you remember?
>> MOORJANI: It
was really strange.
This is the part that's
really hard to explain.
I was no longer in my body.
In fact, I could see my
body on the hospital bed.
And my body looked really small
and insignificant because I
felt incredible and expanded.
So I wasn't like at one place.
It was like I could
be everywhere.
Wherever I put my
awareness, there I was.
If I put my awareness
on my husband,
I was right there with
him, almost being him.
It was like I could
feel his emotions.
My mother was there.
When I put my
awareness on my mother,
I could feel what
she was feeling.
Then I would put my
awareness on the doctors
and I could feel the
hopelessness they were feeling.
>> LISA: You could
feel the emotions.
I have mentioned that I
was in a similar situation.
But it's that complete oneness.
That complete blurred
lines between you
and anything else at all.
>> MOORJANI: It is.
>> LISA: There is no boundary.
>> MOORJANI: No,
there's no boundary.
There's no separation.
It's like when I was
without my physical body,
the physical body gives you
this feeling of separation.
Without the physical
body, it almost
feels like I'm fluid or etheric.
I could be anywhere and
everywhere at the same time.
>> LISA: I always say that
even though we have magnificent
bodies that they
are just boundaries.
They're just these cases that
we live in and we operate from.
We need them.
And they're very intelligent,
the way they operate.
But consciousness expands
far beyond our bodies.
>> MOORJANI: Oh,
far, far beyond.
Far beyond.
And when we are aware of
who that consciousness is,
or what that consciousness is,
what I realized in that state,
in that realm, was I
became aware of how amazing
and magnificent
and powerful I am.
And I just felt incredible.
I felt like I was free.
>> LISA: Yeah.
It's boundaryless.
>> MOORJANI: Yeah.
I was so free from
that painful body
because I had been in so
much pain and discomfort.
>> LISA: So if this was the
first sense of painlessness you
felt and real true
freedom you'd felt,
which you really haven't
experienced yet in your life
at this point, why would
you want to come back?
>> MOORJANI: See, that's
a really good question.
>> LISA: I know.
I felt the same way.
>> MOORJANI: You know, and at
first I didn't want to come
back.
So I was aware I had the choice.
I was aware I was dying.
I was aware I had the choice
and I looked at my body.
And there's no way I wanted
to come back to that body.
It's sick.
It's dying.
>> LISA: It's small.
>> MOORJANI: It's small.
It's restrictive.
I was suffering.
My family was suffering
taking care of that body.
And then I encountered my
father and, interestingly,
even my best friend who
had died from cancer.
>> LISA: Your father had
passed at this point?
>> MOORJANI: My father
had passed 10 years prior.
And, you know, I had always
felt my father was disappointed
in me because I had not complied
with the arranged marriage
and I'd been a
rebellious daughter.
And when I married Danny,
it was after my father
had passed away.
>> LISA: So he never got to--
>> MOORJANI: So he never
got to see me get married.
>> LISA: So you thought.
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
So I thought.
And I thought my father
had waited my whole life
to get me married and then I get
married after he passes away.
But when I
encountered my father,
I realized he had
been with me even
through my wedding, he'd been
with me through my illness,
and that he loved
me unconditionally.
He didn't judge me at all.
It was like he
completely understood me.
And I'd never felt
understood by him.
>> LISA: So you felt
that at that moment.
You felt the forgiveness
and the love-- unconditional
love from your father
at that moment.
>> MOORJANI: I did.
And what I realized
in that state
when I felt this unconditional
love from my father,
I realized that when we lose our
bodies-- when I crossed over--
not only did I lose my body,
but together with my body
went my culture, my beliefs, my
religion, my gender, my race.
All of that is part of the body.
I realized it's not part
of our consciousness.
So all I was, all that is
left, is just pure essence.
>> LISA: The evidence would
show you that that is who you.
You are your culture.
You were born into
this situation.
You are the body.
But when you leave
that realm and you
go into a pure state of
consciousness, which we
all really have all
the time, that you
go into that place of realizing
it's so insignificant.
>> MOORJANI: It really
is insignificant.
>> LISA: And I got to ask
you about your father.
Did you feel him?
>> MOORJANI: Oh, gosh.
Yes.
I felt him.
And it was like we merged.
We communicated not like
linguistically like we do here.
We don't have biology.
We don't have voices.
But you don't need it there.
It's like we merged
and I knew exactly what
he wanted me to know
just in an instant.
>> LISA: In detail, too.
>> MOORJANI: In detail.
And there's no room
for miscommunication.
>> LISA: That's a great point.
You got everything as if he
would have said the words,
but there's no words need.
>> MOORJANI: There
was no words needed.
And what I understood was
that just as much as I thought
I was a victim of my culture,
he was a victim of our culture,
too.
So whatever pressures I felt
from him and his strictness
and whatever I felt, it
was because he was equally
a victim of the same culture.
But here in this state, we were
both without all those filters,
all those layers and
layers of cultural, gender,
racial, whatever, filters.
They were all gone.
So it was just his pure
essence and my pure essence.
And all we had for each other
was pure, unconditional love.
>> MOORJANI: Did he
apologize in essence at all?
Did you feel that from him?
>> MOORJANI: I felt that energy.
But at the same
time, I felt that I
didn't require him to
apologize because there's
this instant empathy
and understanding like,
oh, you were a victim
of the culture, too.
It was like, I understand.
And so there was no need
for apology or forgiveness
or anything because suddenly
you see right through the person
to who they really are.
It's just the most
incredible, beautiful state.
>> LISA: So then you
looked at your body,
and what made you possibly
want to get back in there?
[LAUGHING]
I mean, I think it's
obvious to us here,
but what was that moment like?
>> MOORJANI: OK.
That moment was when I
understood that heaven is not
a place but it's a state.
And whether I chose to
stay there or come back
into the body, now that
I knew what I knew,
I would bring heaven with me.
And I understood that now
that I knew who I really was,
my body would heal
very, very rapidly.
>> LISA: Wow.
Heaven is not a
place, it's a state.
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
>> LISA: And you brought
it back in with you?
>> MOORJANI: And you
can carry it with you.
You bring it with you.
You create it.
>> LISA: So you
opened your eyes?
Or how did that moment
occur when you came up out
of the coma?
>> MOORJANI: So I was in
the coma for about 30 hours.
And because there's no
time and space there,
I felt so much happened.
But when I started
to open my eyes,
everybody was really
shocked that I
was coming out of the coma.
>> LISA: Your vitals
started coming back?
>> MOORJANI: Yeah.
And within a day I didn't
need the oxygen anymore.
By the following day,
I was telling them
they can remove the
food tube, that I
was ready to eat solid foods.
The doctors wouldn't believe me.
And they said, no, we've got
to keep the food tube in.
And I said, no, I'm ready.
I know I'm going to be fine.
And I started to
tell them things.
Like I recognized the
doctor who was there
to see us when we
entered the hospital.
When he walked in the room, I
said, good afternoon, Dr. Chan.
And he said, how did
you recognize me?
And I said, aren't
you the doctor
that was there when we
came into the hospital?
And he said, "But
you were in a coma.
How could you have seen me?"
And things like
that were happening.
And then I was
saying to my husband,
"Isn't he the doctor
that said I'm not
going to make it
through the night?"
And my husband said, "He didn't
even say that in the room.
He said that outside,
down the corridor
in the nurse's station."
And so all kinds of these
things were happening.
And I was telling them all
the procedures they did.
I said, "Oh, at
5:00 AM yesterday
morning, you were removing
fluid from my lungs.
You put a needle
through my back."
And, again, the
doctor said, "But how
did you even know that?"
So they knew that
something had happened.
But within four days, my
tumors had shrunk by 70%.
>> LISA: 70%?
What were the doctors saying?
>> MOORJANI: They didn't
even know what to write
in my medical records.
My oncologist who was treating
me, he actually said that.
He said, I don't even
know what to write
in your medical records.
And he kind of joked
and made this gesture
of throwing it in the dust
bin, in the waste bin.
>> LISA: Because science
couldn't explain it.
>> MOORJANI: And he
Science couldn't explain it.
But the feeling I had in
me was not that my body was
going to heal quickly,
it was that I was already
healed but my body
had to catch up.
That was the feeling.
>> LISA: We have a picture
here of Anita a few days after
your-- it was maybe this was a
few weeks after you'd healed.
>> MOORJANI: Oh, this was a
few weeks after my hair started
growing.
But to put it all
into context, I mean,
I was released from the hospital
five weeks later completely
cancer free.
But at that time when
I came out of the coma,
I was still very
weak and I had to eat
and I had to start walking.
So within three weeks, they
could find no trace of cancer.
I only stayed the
extra two weeks
so that I could
build up my strength
and start walking again.
And then two weeks after
coming out of the hospital,
I was attending a friend's
wedding and dancing
and drinking champagne.
>> LISA: Oh, my goodness.
So you really made
that decision.
I love the look in your
face in this picture
because your eyes are so
wide and so full of hope.
And really they have a
little bit of knowing to them
that I've seen-- I've seen it
and I've come back to tell.
Now, that choice, because
at the beginning of the show
I mentioned that you
were given a choice.
Was it the divine or any
words or any godlike figure
that came to you and said, "You
have a choice to come back."
It's not like we see
in the movies, right?
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
This is interesting to explain.
And I want to explain
this properly.
I don't believe that
God, or whatever
we'd like to call
any divine presence,
I don't believe that this divine
presence is separate from us.
It feels separate when
we're in a physical body,
but without the body, it
was like I merged with it--
my father, me, my best friend.
There's no separation
between all of us.
It's like all of us together
are part of this divine.
We are all expressions of it.
So, in other words,
I don't believe
that life happens to me.
I'm not a victim of life.
Life happens through me.
I am an expression of life.
The divine expresses
itself through me.
So when I was in
that realm, I could
say the decision came from
me, but the greater me that's
connected to the divine.
Or I could say it came from God.
It would mean one
and the same thing.
>> LISA: So that experience and
expression comes through you
every moment of the day.
>> MOORJANI: Every moment.
>> LISA: And right now.
>> MOORJANI: That is what
bringing heaven to earth means
to me.
>> LISA: Did you know that was
going to happen when you were
making that choice
to come back in?
>> MOORJANI: What happened
is that when I was making
the choice, or when I was
presented with the choice,
I felt that the choice
was there for me.
And I felt my father
communicating to me.
And my father said to me,
if I had to put words,
he said to me that
"it's not your time.
You need to go
back to experience
the gifts that are
waiting for you."
So I felt that I had spent
all this time suffering,
but now was a time when I
had gifts waiting for me.
So now was not the time to
say, no, I'm not going back.
>> LISA: You were excited.
>> MOORJANI: I was
excited to come back.
>> LISA: To start living.
>> MOORJANI: I wanted to
see what those gifts were.
I was now excited.
>> LISA: Well, we have a picture
here of the report that shows-
that your body-- the doctors
actually did finally write it--
and saying that your body
is completely cancer free.
There's no detectable
trace of lymphoma.
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
In fact, what they did was
they took every possible test.
They did a lymph node
biopsy, a bone marrow biopsy.
And I was telling them,
you don't need to do this.
The cancer is gone.
And they were saying,
cancer doesn't just
disappear like this.
We just have to find it.
>> LISA: Oh, my goodness.
Oh, my goodness.
>> MOORJANI: And, you know, they
were wonderful, caring doctors.
Absolutely wonderful.
>> LISA: That's
the belief system.
>> MOORJANI: They had to
do what they had to do.
They had to be cautious.
And at that time, I felt--
it was very painful.
The tests were very painful.
And I was thinking, God, I've
come back and all they're doing
is giving me all this pain.
And so at that time, I started
to feel that it's painful
being back in this body because
they were doing these surgeries
and a bone marrow biopsy
is extremely painful.
But today, I am
so glad that they
took those tests because I have
the proof that it happened.
>> LISA: Yes.
That's interesting.
Because they knew that
you were-- somehow
the divine knew you were
going to have to prove this
to every community
because it's a miracle.
And how would you
define miracle?
>> MOORJANI: I define miracle
as something that is outside
of our belief system.
So if something happens that
you cannot explain it within
your belief system or your
paradigm, it's a miracle.
So currently medical
science cannot explain this.
>> LISA: Well the gift is that
you've been able to now start
to express this.
And I want to get
the essence from you
of what it is that
you are here to tell
and your gifts that
you are here to tell.
I want you to take a look
quickly at the clip from CNN
because she's been covered
on every major news
organization with her story.
Take a look at this clip.
>> INTERVIEWER: But you
could still see your husband.
And how was he reacting to the
fact that you were in this coma
and he thought he
was losing you?
>> MOORJANI: He was
very distraught.
He was there by my bedside.
He was holding my
hand and I could
feel he was willing
me to come back.
>> INTERVIEWER: And you
had a choice to make.
>> MOORJANI: I had a choice as
to whether to come back or not.
At first, I absolutely
did not want
to come back because why
would I want to come back
into this sick and dying body?
But then it was as
though in the next moment
I understood why
I had the cancer.
All the years of beating
myself up, feeling flawed,
had turned my own energy against
me and manifested as cancer.
>> INTERVIEWER: Fear, in
a way, poisoned your body.
>> MOORJANI: Yes, it did.
And I understood that now that
I knew this, my body would heal.
>> INTERVIEWER: You had this
huge revelation and Soni
and your father both affirmed
what needed to be done.
>> MOORJANI: Both
of them said to me,
"Go back and live
you're life fearlessly."
And it was around that time
that I started to come back.
>> INTERVIEWER: So how
long were you in the coma?
>> MOORJANI: About 30 hours.
I was in the
intensive care unit.
But within four days they were
able to take off the oxygen,
they were able to take
out the food tube,
and the tumors shrunk by 70%.
>> INTERVIEWER: And the
doctors, they kept testing you.
Right?
They kept looking
for your cancer.
They kept treating you.
They were saying there's
no way that cancer
disappears like that.
>> LISA: So you came back in
with these messages that you
want to communicate.
And just the essence
of you being here
communicates a massive message
as we see from your story.
And I see as the most
significant part of your story
isn't only the cancer,
but it was the fear
that you had been making every
decision from before you even
had cancer.
Even up to the point of
being afraid of attracting--
of getting cancer.
Did anyone in your family,
by the way, have cancer?
>> MOORJANI: No.
There's no cancer in my family.
I'm not even a good
candidate for cancer
because there's no
family history of cancer.
>> LISA: Wow.
So as you're going through
these tests and so forth
and the doctors are telling
you, "We know it's there;
we just need to find it."
Was that fear even there at all?
That essence of it?
>> MOORJANI: Not at all.
Once I came out of the
near death experience,
I knew that because I was meant
to come back and live my life,
I knew I was healthy.
I knew that nothing
can override that now.
>> LISA: And what did
you come back to do?
I mean, what are the
messages that you
want to communicate to us now?
>> MOORJANI: The biggest message
that I want people to know is I
would love for people to
know how incredibly powerful,
amazing, and
magnificent they are.
Every single person.
That was the biggest
thing I realized
is that I realized that
life strips it away from us.
Life erodes our power
and our magnificence
and just how incredible we are.
A lot of things about life.
I mean, we go to school and
we learn to be competitive.
And when you're
competitive, it means
you need to make other
people lose so you can win.
And nobody needs to do that.
I learned that the most
important thing for us
to do or be is to
just be who we are.
Just come and express
ourselves and be
who we were put on
this planet to be.
That's all.
It's not about comparing with
other people or competing
or being made to
feel small because we
watch the advertisements on TV.
It's just about valuing
and loving who we are.
The biggest lesson
that saved my life,
the thing that made me
understand why I had cancer
was in realizing that I had
never loved and valued myself.
That was the biggest thing.
And when we love and value
ourselves, the fear goes away.
So it's not about trying
to get rid of the fear,
it's just about
increasing the love
and value we have for ourselves.
When we love and
value ourselves,
there's no room for
fear because you
can't have love and fear
exist simultaneously.
>> LISA: What does that mean
to love and value yourself?
What does that mean to you?
>> MOORJANI: OK.
It means to not put myself
down, not treat myself
like a doormat,
not forsake myself,
to at least value and
love and care for myself
as much as I do other people.
Prior to this experience, I
used to be a people pleaser.
Everything I did,
I used to do out
of the fear of the consequences
rather than because it
was something that
I wanted to do.
I had to make an excuse
for doing things.
It had to be because someone
else wanted me to do it
or it pleased someone else.
And I would always
make myself small
so other people could be bigger.
I would treat myself
like a doormat,
put myself down, forsake
myself, let myself down,
say yes when I meant no.
All the classical things of
not valuing myself, low self
esteem, all of that
because I thought
there was something
wrong with me.
I was bullied as a child,
discriminated against.
>> LISA: You had many messages
that showed you that was
the case and it couldn't have
been further from the truth.
>> MOORJANI: It couldn't have
>> LISA: But when you're faced
with those situations now
of being the-- of saying--
really having to say no
to something and disappointing
people or being in that place
of not compromising yourself,
taking care of yourself,
taking a nap when you need
to rather than taking care
of somebody else,
do you do that now?
>> MOORJANI: I do.
I absolutely do.
And I have realized
that it's honest to do
that because can you
imagine if you found out
that everything that
people did for you,
they did because
they felt obligated
or because they were
too scared to say no,
not because they wanted
to do it for you.
You wouldn't like to feel that
that's the reason they did it.
So now I can see it that way.
And I realize that if I'm going
to do something for someone,
I want it to come from my heart.
And what's happened is
that in this realization,
I realize that when I
take care of myself,
when I really take
care of myself
and love and value
myself for who I am,
when I do things for other
people, I really mean it.
And they know I mean it.
>> LISA: It must have come
in huge amounts of love.
It comes in a bigger,
greater package
because you're doing
it for yourself.
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
And I don't feel any obligation.
I don't feel any resentment
if nothing comes back
because I'm not looking
for something to come back.
>> LISA: I was just thinking,
you're not doing it from
a place of selfishness--
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
>> LISA: --as to gain a reward.
Yes.
You're doing it from
that place of boundless
love where you're not giving
or receiving, it's just is.
>> MOORJANI: It just is.
And I'm just being who I am.
And when we love ourselves,
all we have to do
is just be who we are
because we are love.
>> LISA: Now, when
you met Wayne Dyer.
Can you explain when you met
him and what that experience was
like because he's played a big
part in bringing your story out
because he found
it so compelling.
>> MOORJANI: I feel he was--
I was destined to meet him.
He was destined
to be in my path.
It was our dharma to meet.
And he was incredible.
I think, after my
husband, he's probably
the man I love most, after my
husband or immediate family.
>> LISA: Well, I can
see why he loves you.
I mean, you are such a
teacher and he is, too.
And you see each
other as-- but you
get to actually-- when the
teacher is able to be taught,
I see that
relationship with you.
You can teach Wayne
and Wayne teaches you.
>> MOORJANI: He does.
>> LISA: It's beautiful.
>> MOORJANI: He's
been so instrumental.
And it was just
so synchronistic.
One of the things that
I learned during my NDE,
and this will bring me to how I
met Wayne, one of the things I
learned was even though I knew
that I had many gifts waiting
for me and I had a purpose
and that I had to come back,
I also knew that I didn't
have to do anything.
In other words, I
don't have to pursue
or I don't have to
figure out how to do it.
I didn't have to do anything.
All I had to do was be myself.
That's all.
I learned that that's
all anybody has to do.
We don't actually have
to chase or pursue
or anything, because the more
we chase and the more we pursue,
the more we're actually
sending ourselves the message
that I'm not worthy
of these things
and I have to work
really hard to get it.
But when all you have to
do is just be who you are,
love yourself, value yourself,
whatever is truly yours
will come to you
because it'll come
from a place of you
being who you are.
>> LISA: That is how
you manifest things.
>> MOORJANI: That is
how you manifest things.
And the more you love
yourself and value yourself,
the more you manifest.
And some people say,
oh, I do vision boards.
Sometimes it works.
Sometimes it doesn't.
It's dependent on how much
you love and value yourself.
You can do a vision board till
you turn blue in the face.
But if you don't love yourself,
it's not going to happen.
The things that
you really deserve
are not going to
come because you
don't believe you deserve them.
And so what happened was that
I didn't put any boundaries,
I didn't have any
real picture or goal
as to what was going to happen.
I just trusted and I
knew that all I had to do
was be myself, love
myself, value myself.
And the more we value
ourselves, the more
we attract the things
that we deserve.
>> LISA: So you wrote your
story on the internet somewhere,
right?
>> MOORJANI: I wrote my
story on the internet.
>> LISA: Just to get
it out there, right?
>> MOORJANI: Yeah.
I didn't even put my
real name because I
didn't want people
to know it was me.
So I didn't even
use my whole name.
But there were certain
clues in there,
like that it said Hong
Kong and things like that.
But my story went viral.
I didn't expect it to.
>> LISA: Where did you write it?
>> MOORJANI: I wrote it
on a website about NDEs.
I submitted it and
the people said, wow,
this is just the
most amazing NDE.
They put it on their homepage.
First of all, it attracted
a lot of oncologists
because of the cancer angle.
So I had oncologists
contacting that website
to get them to put
them in touch with me
so that they could check
my medical records.
So an oncologist actually
flew to Hong Kong
from the US and
verified everything
and even wrote me a testimonial,
which I've put in my book.
>> LISA: Why?
But, yeah, OK.
>> MOORJANI: He said
you should share this.
>> LISA: OK.
>> MOORJANI: So he we went to
the hospital where it happened
and verified it.
He sent it to five
different cancer institutes
who all said they've never seen
or heard of a case like this.
Then somebody sent the link
to my story to Wayne Dyer.
Wayne Dyer said he started
reading it, he couldn't stop.
And he contacted his
publishers, who are Hay House,
and he told them,
you've got to read this.
You've got to track
this woman down.
You've got to ask her if
she's willing to write a book.
And he even said he
would write the foreword
and he would promote it.
And that's exactly
what happened.
>> LISA: And that's
exactly what he has done.
That is amazing.
We have a picture here of you
with Wayne which is wonderful
and just one of your many ways
that you guys get together
and you guys talk
which is so fun.
With all that you have been
talking about and all that you
teach on the stage
and everything
that you talk about in your
book, what happens when you are
confronted with the
practical things in life
that tend to get us down?
The things that don't work
in our favor or people who
try to discredit
you or unkindness.
How do you deal with that?
>> MOORJANI: There's a
couple of things I do.
Of course, in the first instance
that I receive unkindness,
it does hurt me.
I'm still human.
And I'm back in this
body and it does hurt me.
But one of things that I
have come to understand
is that when somebody is
deliberately unkind-- if it's
unintentional,
that's different--
if somebody is deliberately
unkind or mean or nasty,
whether it's
through the internet
or whether it's
in person, usually
it means that person is
hurting inside themselves.
And I now understand that.
And I probably
wouldn't have before, I
would have taken it
personally before.
Today I know it's
because they're hurting.
And the way I deal with it is
I don't respond to it directly.
I certainly don't get even.
I don't give back.
What I do is I actually send
them even more kindness.
One thing I do
know, again, which
I've learned from
my experience is
that we extend beyond
our physical bodies.
Our energy, basically,
we ignore that part.
We tend to listen to
people's words and language.
But in actuality,
language distracts us
from how we are
really feeling or how
the other person
is really feeling.
So what I do is even while I'm
talking to somebody, if they
are being particularly
uncooperative, unkind,
or nasty, while I'm
speaking with them,
I am consciously sending
them energy almost
like embracing them and hugging
them with loving energy.
And I find that actually
changes the communication
and the exchange that
takes place between us.
And it's worked for
me every single time.
>> LISA: That's an incredible
thing to bring back from that
experience you had is that
energy that goes beyond
our bodies.
That you can actually
wrap somebody
in forgiveness
and love and peace
even though their
intentions are different.
>> MOORJANI: And I've even
done it with people who are not
in front of me, people who I
have had email exchanges with
where I can tell that their
emails are getting more
and more nasty or exploitative--
they're trying to exploit me--
I will, again,
same sort of thing.
I will visualize them, wrap
them in my energy of love,
send them lots of
love, security.
And sure enough, the next
email I get from them-- Well,
first of all, my
response to them
is written from that
energy, that same space.
Sure enough, the response I
get from them is very different
and it works every time.
>> LISA: Interesting.
And is there anything else
that bothers you or really
upsets you in life that you
have learned to get over?
Like you didn't
react the same way
that you reacted when
you were younger.
>> MOORJANI: One of the things
that bothers me I think even
now, which I have learned to
get over but still I see it
happening all the time is
that in this day and age
of information technology
and social media,
people hide behind anonymity.
They hide behind a name
which is not their own.
And I find that people have
actually become nastier
because they say things
that they would not
say if they were
right in front of you.
And I don't mean just
say things to me,
but I see this happening a lot,
even young kids being bullied
in social media or
people being bullied.
And I find that a
really disturbing trend.
I have learned myself
to deal with it
by sending people
love all the time.
I also feel that
it helps me to know
that a lot of
people that do this
are just venting their own
anger and their own pain.
If people can realize that
there are real people reading
these messages and
you're hurting them
and affecting them.
But that happens a lot today.
>> LISA: If you see someone
out there who's hurting someone
else, like a parent screaming
at a child or people treating
people unfairly and unkindly,
do you say something to them?
>> MOORJANI: You know, more
often than not I just send them
energy because sometimes
by saying something--
>> LISA: You engage.
>> MOORJANI: --I engage and
I may offend one or the other
of them.
But I definitely do send
them energy every time.
>> LISA: That's a great idea.
That's a wonderful solution.
Well, you've really
inspired millions of people
and I'm so grateful
that you've been here
to share your story with
us from a perspective
that I can understand from being
in this experience as well.
It is such a privilege
to talk with you.
>> MOORJANI: Thank you.
>> LISA: Thank you so much.
I know that you have many,
many more teachings that
are in the book.
And do you have another
book coming out as well?
>> MOORJANI: I have one
that I'm writing right now.
>> LISA: Good.
You got a lot to say.
Thank you so much, Anita.
>> MOORJANI: Thank you, Lisa.
Thank you so much.
It was so easy to talk to you
because I know you get it.
>> LISA: I do.
I do.
And so much more came
out of the conversation
because of that understanding.
We started from another level.
>> MOORJANI: Yes.
>> LISA: So, thank you so much.
And if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Anita Moorjani or
share it with your friends,
better yet, go to GaiamTV.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]